Using API in practice - guide (#481)
livechat/livechat-public-docs: content/getting-started/guides/get-archives-tutorial/index.mdx

---
weight: 30
category: "getting-started"
subcategory: "guides"
title: "Using API in practice"
tagline: "Using LiveChat Messaging API in practice."
desc: "Learn how to get chat summaries using our API. A step-by-step tutorial that guides you through the process."
---

If you're not sure how to use our APIs, this tutorial will guide you through the process of sending a sample request. We'll cover all necessary aspects including authorization, the request format, as well as recommended tools.

> To demonstrate the process, we'll show you how to **get chat summaries**.

Author: Makes sense but I would mention that in Step 1

Start by logging in to <a href="https://developers.livechatinc.com/console/" target="_blank">Developer Console</a> and [create a new server-side app](../#creating-livechat-apps). The **Authorization** building block is added automatically.

![LiveChat New App](images/create_app.png)

Next, fill in the **Redirect URI whitelist** field and choose scopes. 

To get chat sumamries, you'll need `chats--all:ro` and `chats--access:ro`, and `chats--my:ro`. You can check out method details in our [API documentation](../../../messaging/agent-chat-api/#get-chats-summary).

![LiveChat Developer Console](images/console.png)

When it's all set, we can proceed with token generation. Make sure to have your **Client Id** and **Redirect URI** at hand.

# Step 2 Acquiring the access token

Everything you need to know about authorization can be found in [this document](../../../getting-started/authorization), so keep this source for future reference.

Start by pasting your **Client Id** and **Redirect URI** in the following request:

```shell
https://accounts.livechatinc.com/
?response_type=token
&client_id=<Client_Id_from_Developer_Console>
&redirect_uri=<Redirect_URI_from_Developer_console>

> ```

Reviewer: Why did you use response_type=token instead of response_type=code?

Given that your **Client Id** was **0805e283233042b37f460ed8fbf22160** and **Redirect URI** was **https://my.livechatinc.com/**, this is how your request will look: 

```shell
https://accounts.livechatinc.com/
?response_type=token
&client_id=0805e283233042b37f460ed8fbf22160
&redirect_uri=https://my.livechatinc.com/
```

Paste your request in the browser and don't miss the response. 

![LiveChat request](images/request.png)

Your access token will be returned in a long string:

```
https://my.livechatinc.com/
#access_token=dal%3ALW9Guwt8QMiPK6P6G8cSDw
&expires_in=28800
...
```

> ![LiveChat response](images/response.png)

Reviewer: Important note: User has to be logged in to the exact LiveChat account that was used to create the app in Developers Console. If user is not logged in and enter the link, it will ask them to login to LiveChat first.

> ![LiveChat response](images/response.png)

Reviewer: This should exactly explain which part of the link is the token, also that "%3A" is URL-coded part for ":"

In our Postman environment, we make use of variables to pass on the **API version** and the **access token**. If your not familiar with variables configuration, 
Postman has a great <a href="https://learning.getpostman.com/docs/postman/environments_and_globals/variables/" target="_blank">guide</a> covering this topic. 
You can create variables from the ground up, or download <a href={`data:text/json;charset=utf-8,${encodeURIComponent(JSON.stringify({"id": "b0db5d30-df90-4d87-89c4-7fede8bd769a","name": "LiveChat Web API", "values": [{"key": "api_version", "value": "v3.1", "enabled": true},{"key": "access_token","value": "<your_access_token>","enabled": true}],"_postman_variable_scope": "environment","_postman_exported_at": "2019-09-19T10:24:52.465Z","_postman_exported_using": "Postman/7.6.0"}))}`} download="environment.json">environment.json</a> containing sample variables.

> ![LiveChat Postman Collection](images/postman.png)

Reviewer: It doesn't show which authorization method should be used in Postman.

In case of `get_chats_summary`, you can send a basic request without specifying any parameters. You could, however, filter chat summaries or look for them on a particular page. For more details on possible parameters, refer to our [docs](../../../messaging/agent-chat-api/#get-chats-summary).

# Mission completed

> And that would be about it! You can use our Postman collection as your playground, and try out other methods. Remember that you cannot use the sme token for **Customer Chat API**. Instead, use the token you have for [creating a customer](../../../authorization/#creating-new-customer), and acquire a new one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And that would be about it! You can use our Postman collection as your playground, and try out other methods. Remember that you cannot use the same token for **Customer Chat API**. Instead, use the token you've obtain in Step 2 (link) for [creating a customer](../../../authorization/#creating-new-customer), and acquire a new one.
```
